---
layout: post
title: "The Night Manager"
author: "John Le Carre"
affiliate: "https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1524796956/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=jacolovestoread-20&camp=1789&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=1524796956&linkId=abf107f1a14aa4168662347c1bd08b1f"
---

Having read ’Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy’ - a book I found a bit slow and overly complex - I wasn’t particularly keen to try ‘The Night Manager’, except that I had seen the [TV Series](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01BPBQ1SC/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=jacolovestoread-20&camp=1789&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=B01BPBQ1SC&linkId=27a04c8105fb578348e9bebcc6d76796) (which is excellent) and I thought the book would follow suit. Overall I was not disappointed - the storyline is compelling and moves at a reasonable pace, although in my opinion it has some of the same flaws as ‘Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy’.

The story revolves around Jonathan Pine, the night manager at a hotel in Cairo. He becomes involved with a beautiful woman who is killed by a business associate of Richard Roper, a powerful arms dealer. Jonathan is haunted by his role in her murder and when he meets Roper months later in Switzerland he vows revenge and ultimately becomes a spy for British Intelligence.

There is plenty to like about the book - the main character is interesting yet I never questioned his motivation or ultimate goals, which is important in this type of story. The action is not necessarily fast-paced but the storyline never stalls and I was always kept wanting more. If you’re just looking for a fun spy novel this will keep you entertained.

If you’ve read ‘Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy’ your opinion of that book will probably be similar to this one, although I think ‘The Night Manager’ is a better book. The author seems to have a very detailed knowledge of the British Intelligence Services and it gets rather difficult to follow, both because of the number of different agencies and because the author refers to them by their aliases such as ‘Whitehall’ and ‘The River House’. You eventually figure out what goes where, but the confusion is rather unnecessary.

My biggest pain point is that Le Carre simply doesn’t properly introduce characters. You might be introduced to 5 different characters during a covert meeting, but you are not given any indication of which characters are important. Similarly, when the same character shows up later on you are not given any reminders of who they are - not ‘Flynn, the FBI agent’ or ‘Goodhew, the Head of the Steering Committee and long-time ally’. Just ‘Flynn’. Just ‘Goodhew’. The result is that some of the characters become just names and you remember them purely by association and when some fringe characters become important later on it makes the story feel disjointed. This was the exact problem I had with ‘Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy’ - an interesting storyline, but I never felt like I knew how all the characters fit together. You could keep notes, I suppose - but books are supposed to be enjoyed, not studied.

To be fair, the storyline and excellent plot twists are enough to keep you entertained, although in my opinion it falls short of being a great book due to the problems I described. Overall I enjoyed the book and the best way I can summarize my feelings is this: if you asked me if you should read *this* book I would recommend it, but if you asked me for a book recommendation I wouldn’t mention it. The [TV Show](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01BPBQ1SC/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=jacolovestoread-20&camp=1789&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=B01BPBQ1SC&linkId=27a04c8105fb578348e9bebcc6d76796) is great though.
